                          *********************** 
                          * Product Description *
                          ***********************      
                          
                                Portability
                                -----------

OmniBasic is currently available for Win95/NT, Linux, MS-DOS, OS/2, OS-9000,
OS9/68000, and OS9/68020. Other ports are in the works including WinNT/95.
OmniBasic source code written for any of these may be compiled and run on any or all of 
them without modification making it the ONLY truly portable BASIC compiler
in the world!

                                Simplicity
                                ----------

OmniBasic is a structured dialect of BASIC which is inherently easier to 
learn and use than C.


                                Structure
                                ---------

OmniBasic incorporates Pascal style control structures including:

                           IF/THEN/ELSE/IENDIF
                            WHILE/DO/ENDWHILE
                              REPEAT/UNTIL
                           LOOP/EXITIF/ENDLOOP
                               FOR/TO/NEXT

                                   Power
                                   -----
OmniBasic is a true 32-bit compiler with no restriction on string/array size.
In addition to the features of an extended BASIC, OmniBasic has the advanced 
features normally associated with systems languages such as C and some 
features unique to OmniBasic. These include:

                                  Pointers
                        Dynamic Memory Allocation
                        Vectors( Based Variables)
                        C Function Compatibility
                         Command Line Interface
                                  Stream I/O

                                  Features
                                  --------

The features of the compiler are what you would expect in an advanced systems 
program language and include:

                                   Macros
                             Conditional Compile
                                Use (include)
                                Named Labels
                               Named Variables
                               Named Constants
                           User-Defined Data Types
                           User-Defined Functions
                             Built-In Functions
                             Intermixed C Code
                          Accurate Error Reporting

                                 Data Types
                                 ----------

Full string capability including all the standard string functions and 
operators is included in the language. All of the listed data types may also 
be declared as one, two or three dimensional arrays. Data types include:

                                    Byte
                                    Short
                                    Long
                                    Real
                                   String
                                   Boolean
                                User-Defined

                             Full Spectrum Usage
                             -------------------

OmniBasic is well suited for usage in a wide range of environments running 
the gamut from I/O drivers to systems to utilities to applications. OmniBasic 
is a higher level language than C but includes all the handles and features 
to perform lower level tasks as well. OmniBasic is written in OmniBasic!

                                Easy To Learn
                                -------------

There is no need to learn all of advanced features in order to write useful 
programs right away. You can start out with a basic BASIC program and move 
into the advanced features as your learning progresses. Even the advanced 
features which often parallel  similar features in C are much easier to learn 
and use than the corresponding features in C.

                               Based Variables
                               ---------------

Vectors (based variables) are a powerful feature of OmniBasic and essentially 
allow the programmer to treat data in a dynamically declared memory buffer as 
if they were ordinary variables instead of being forced into pointer notation 
as in C. Pointers may also be used if you prefer. Vectors may also be used to 
refer to ordinary variables as a different type. 

                                   Macros
                                   ------

Macros allow the programmer to define complex operations in a manner similar 
to a function but with the performance of in-line code. Macros can also be 
used to modularize code. Macros may be used to effectively extend the 
language.

                                 Readability
                                 -----------

Many programmers overlook the importance of readability until they have to 
look at code they wrote 6 months ago or train another person to take over the 
project. With the named labels, named variables, named constants and the near 
English syntax of the language, the clarity is inherently there. Of course 
you can be as generous as you wish in adding comments throughout the program 
with no penalty in execution speed or code size.

                                 Performance
                                 -----------

OmniBasic compiles your BASIC program to C, calls the C compiler for you 
resulting in a free standing executable with the same performance as a 
comparable program written in C. You can benchmark OmniBasic against any 
BASIC or C!

                                Test Drive It
                                -------------

You can experience the performance and utility of OmniBasic at no risk by 
requesting a fully functional free demo. These are available for all 
operating systems supported and may be obtained by downloading from various 
ftp sites, or on a diskette through the mail. The demo versions are identical 
to the purchased versions except for a limited symbol table size (which in 
turn limits program size). 

                               There You Have it
                               -----------------

                   The Simplicity of Basic...

                           The Structure of Pascal...

                                    The Power of C...

                                        OmniBasic

                             Call, Write, or Email

                              Computer Design Lab
                              Hwy 94 at Bluffton
                              Rhineland, MO 65069
                                (573) 236-4644
                            mlsmith@vax2.rainis.net
                            CompuServe: 72762,3375


 
